[Music]
why do we have to turn off our phones
for takeoff in landing at this time your
portable electronic devices must be set
to airplane mode or switched off anyone
who has ever traveled by plane has heard
this phrase before this seemingly simple
command leaves us with the questions why
and what will happen if I don't we at
bright side have decided to answer
frequent traveler questions regarding
gadgets on airplanes so why do we have
to turn off our phones for takeoff and
landing get ready to find out the answer
to this inquiry and many others then
click the thumbs up fasten your seat
belt and let's go you can even leave
your electronic device on at this time
number 6 what is flight mode 4
flight mode is more than a pretty
airplane icon on your smartphone screen
in flight mode your gadget disables all
data services Wi-Fi gsm bluetooth etc
simply put your phone or tablet stops
functioning as a radio receiver if your
smartphone has not been switched to
flight mode then the signals emanating
from it may interfere with the highly
sensitive electronic equipment on the
aircraft number five what if I just
don't use my phone when a smartphone is
just locked and you're not using it it
is still searching for a network and its
frequency may overlap with the frequency
of the aircraft systems even if you
think a sleeping gadget doesn't pose a
threat switch it to flight mode anyway
if your device happens to lack this
function just turn it off
number four why is my phone activity
dangerous as you know takeoff and
landing are the most difficult and
crucial stages of the flight when pilots
need to coordinate their actions with
ground control all this is done using
the aircraft's navigation system think
about it if your cell phone signal is
strong enough to travel long distances
then it can definitely cause
interference with in airplanes radio
communications and the pilot will not
hear information transmitted by the air
traffic controller
it can also meddle with the navigation
and flight control equipment all this
might lead to an emergency situation and
we don't want that right planes are
scary enough even when everything is
going smoothly imagine if something
really goes wrong
pilots can avoid disaster but not the
panic on board
it's not just your phone sending out
strong signals laptops Kindles iPods and
gaming consoles do it too if something
is wrong with any of your gadgets that
causes them to emit even stronger radio
waves that they normally do the thread
is even bigger if there's more than one
disobedient passenger on board the
signals from their gadgets combined and
obviously get even more intense number
three what will really happen if I leave
my phone on it sounds pretty scary that
a cellphone can interfere with an
airplanes radio communication and cause
a horrible tragedy but how likely is it
in reality what will happen if I just
ignore the instructions and leave my
phone on well chances are you'll be
kicked off the flight this exact thing
happened to Alec Baldwin who was so into
playing his favorite online game on his
smartphone that he wouldn't agree to
turn it off as a result he was kicked
off a flight from LA to New York see
even the celebs aren't immune to the
rules maybe he found another way to
travel two and a half thousand miles
within 5 hours that didn't require
temporarily putting down his beloved
words with friends game probably not of
course not every rebellious passenger is
caught red-handed and punished Public
Radio International asked people to
confess their travel secrets and it
turns out that 4 out of 10 passengers in
the u.s. ignore the warnings and leave
their gadgets on while soaring through
the clouds fortunately no plane crash in
history has ever been a result of an
active smartphone onboard
however the causes of such tragedies
often remain a mystery
in January 2017 NASA published a report
on passenger electronic devices every
year crewmembers anonymously contribute
information to the u.s. aviation safety
reporting system and according to their
reports there were at least 50 cases of
electronic devices causing safety
problems onboard one of these safety
problems was an error in the navigation
equipment that caused a 30-degree
deviation in an airplane which might not
sound like a lot but for an airplane
it's a serious problem the problem was
fixed when a passenger on board the
plane finally turned off his portable
DVD player but when he switched the
player back on the same issue arose
again there are other similar situations
described in the report
none of which sound like any fun at all
number two then what electronic devices
can I use on a plane
throughout the flight you can use any
devices that don't exchange data through
gsm Wi-Fi or bluetooth for instance
electronic watches but not smartwatches
cameras video cameras voice recorders
hearing aids pacemakers etc yes you can
even take pictures and videos on your
phone given that it's on airplane mode
and the airline doesn't have its own
policy that forbids it
they'll definitely let you know if
that's the case devices with this data
exchange function may also be used at
all stages of the flight but only on
flight mode
these include smartphones and
smartwatches tablets ebooks digital
audio video players etc you can also use
a laptop but if it doesn't have a flight
mode option turning off the Wi-Fi works
just as well you may turn off airplane
mode only when the aircraft is in flight
usually a few minutes after takeoff and
only after a message from the flight
crew tells you that you can but then
again you won't be able to do much with
your data when you're thousands of feet
from the ground right please remember
that these rules can change depending on
the airline it's a good idea to check
the official website before your flight
it'll save you some trouble later on you
don't want to be fighting with the cabin
crew just so you can read the electronic
version of The Great Gatsby do you
number one how am I supposed to occupy
myself during the flight if you can't
live without the internet
or at least you think you can there's a
solution for you kindly provided by many
airlines today in-flight Wi-Fi doesn't
use cell towers to bring the world to
you it's satellite based and therefore
safe for the airplanes external
communications it gives you access to
your email social media and messengers
you can also surf the net to keep
up-to-date on the latest news you can't
text since it's Wi-Fi only but who
really texts these days anyway one thing
you should remember though is that it's
not free prices vary depending on the
airline and the device but $10 is
normally enough to keep yourself on the
grid during a flight if you prefer to
pay for just one trip you can also get a
24 hour or even an annual pass good news
for US airlines are now competing to
provide the fastest and best in-flight
Wi-Fi Australian airline Qantas for
example offers its passengers a
connection strong enough to stream
Netflix onboard and of course free Wi-Fi
we'll be waiting for you as you arrive
safely to your destination how to stay
safe on one of those public networks is
the topic of another one of our videos
here's the link to it
to sum it all up while a couple of
working phones won't crash a plane a
cabin full of passengers actively using
their gadgets will interfere with the
safety of the flight let's appreciate
the work of others and not create
unnecessary difficulties for pilots
after all it only takes a second to put
your phone on flight mode so sit back
relax and enjoy the flight if you like
this video let us know by hitting the
thumbs up button if it gets 300,000
likes
we'll post more videos answering the
most important questions of all
travelers make sure to subscribe to our
channel to be the first to see all our
cool updates remember to always look on
the bright side of life
[Music]